---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/sources/prey-2017/","tags":["videoGame","theBest"],"created":"2025-04-19T13:56:26.069+01:00","updated":"2025-04-20T21:09:43.746+01:00"}
---

## Prey
This game has so many great and creative elements. You have a glue gun which you can use to make bridges and traverse the map to places you wouldn't normally be able to reach. There are powers where you can mimic objects which allows you to hide but also to fit into small spaces. There are a bunch of creative weapons such as a crossbow that shoots foam darts that you can use to toggle control panels. All of these elements are really well thought out and you could build your character around most of them. When I go back I intend to play completely differently than last time I played.

There are also a bunch of survival elements that I had turned off for the base game but are required in the DLC such as oxygen tanks in space which I think are probably worth playing the base game with.

This game is great and absolutely worth playing. I feel like it went under the radar and I'm not too sure why because everything it does it does well and it does a lot.
## Mooncrash
I may have liked Prey's DLC more than the base game. I have replayed it a few times and not replayed the base game yet. It mixes Prey's core mechanics with an almost roguelike system. When you die you play as a different character on the space station with different abilities. The goal is to escape with each character, but you gain more information and access to more items as you go. I think this is a great concept that uses the best elements of Prey to their best.

- [[Reviews/Prey (2017) Review\|Prey (2017) Review]]
- [[Reviews/Prey (2017) Mooncrash Review\|Prey (2017) Mooncrash Review]]

