---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/main-notes/starfield-captains-logs/starfield-log-2/","created":"2025-10-02T02:08:40.033+01:00","updated":"2025-10-02T02:08:40.284+01:00"}
---

[Captains Logs](Starfield%20Captains%20Logs.md)

While searching for the ideal destination for lying low, I encountered a distress beacon in the outer reaches of the galaxy. When I went to help, spacers were attacking a Freestar outpost, and some UC marines had stopped off to help out. Neither of the groups fighting the spacers was in good shape when I arrived. I shot my way through to the Freestar group, and then together we found the UC captain, Myeong. At first, the Freestar were reluctant to help the UC, but I convinced them they all had a common goal. I never could stand spacers, tearing things apart and never building anything themselves.

Together, we managed to push the spacers out of the outpost, and then we regrouped. We realised that the spacers were going to keep coming unless we did something about them. I took my ship and went to take out the spacers in orbit while those on the ground fought off a few remaining there. I made short work of the spacers in orbit and even managed to board and commandeer the last ship. So now I have two ships, and my fortune is certainly starting to look up. 

After I took out the spacers I could find in orbit there was a second attack on the planet. I must have forced some other spacers in to action, they began a full on assault on the base. I used some heavy weapons that I had been given by the UC to deal with the terrormorphs and with the marines and Freestar we made short work of them. They paid well and Myeong was particularly grateful.

After that, I finally found somewhere to stay. Unfortunately, the moon Lineaus IV-b did not have a breathable atmosphere. It turns out that most of the nice planets with beautiful oases to live in are already occupied, especially the ones where you can set up a mining operation. So I’m the end, I just settled for somewhere out of the way where I could do some mining. I set up a little outpost on the moon and called it “Corvo Attano - mining” after one of my favourite retro game characters. 

The moon had plenty of resources, but it turns out you need resources to mine resources, so I had to make some trips to buy equipment and supplies. It was on those trips that the bounty hunters began to find me. Maybe it wasn’t the brightest idea to go back to New Atlantis to buy some supplies. They hailed me, and I tried to find out who was after me and which thing I’d done was still causing me problems. I got nothing other than that the bounty on my head would increase over time. The bounty hunters attacked, and using an asteroid field for cover, I managed to take out all three ships.

It wasn’t too long after that, that I had my auto miners set up. Then there’s wasn’t so much that I needed to do out the outpost, so I built a small habitation pod and did some crafting and relaxing. Turns out rocks with no atmosphere can be beautiful when you set up and air tight pod with some windows. It seemed my plan had worked, while I was there I didn’t encounter a single bounty Hunter.

Then I got a call from some farmers in a neighbouring system. Turned out spacers had destroyed the beacons they used to communicate with the other in the system and were now threatening them. With my hatred for the spacers, I couldn’t help myself, and the pay was good, so I went to help after refitting my new ship for speed and manoeuvrability. To begin, I deactivated the beacons and took out the spacer ships defending them. Then we get the heads of all the farming families together. I tried to get them to come together to take out the spacers at their base in an abandoned research satellite nearby. One family had coned another in the past, so the family who had been coned and had the most ships refused to help.

Fortunately, the other two families, along with my ship, which I had now named the hyena, made quite a fleet. Just as we arrived at the spacer satellite, and engaged the enemy fleet. Three bounty hunters jumped into the system. It was all I could do to stay alive. I wove in and out, around asteroids and the station, and then another group of bounty hunters jumped in. I thought I was done with them and the spacers. It turned out this second group of bounty hunters actually wanted to protect me to increase the bounty on my head, so they joined our side in the battle and the odds turned in our favour. 

We made short work of the fleet outside the station. The bounty Hunter defenders declared that they would see me again when they could make some more money for my head, and grav jumped away while the rest of us made our way over to dock with the satellite. Once inside, we slowly worked our way through, taking out the last of the spacers. The farmers paid me reasonably well for my efforts. On the way out, Myeong jumped into the system. She had also heard the beacon and was happy to talk again. She gave me a powerful pistol before saying farewell, expecting not to meet me again.

Afterwards, I went back to Corvo Attano and relaxed for a while. It wasn’t long before I was bored, though, and it seemed the bounty hunters had found me. I needed some money since I had spent most of mine on my outpost and ship. So I thought if I couldn’t beat them, I may as well join them. Since I was in the Freestar space, I started to take some bounties they had posted. Maybe along the way, I would meet the man who had put a bounty on my head.
