---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/main-notes/starfield-captains-logs/starfield-log-3/","created":"21-04-2025","updated":"21-04-2025"}
---

[Captains Logs](Starfield%20Captains%20Logs.md)

My first Freestar bounty was on an outlaw game boss. They were inside an abandoned research facility on a moon in the Akila system. Oddly enough, when I arrived, I heard shooting. There was a fight going on inside the outpost. Everyone fighting was wearing ecliptic gear, so it seemed some form of mutiny was happening. I used the fighting to my advantage and snuck my way through, taking out the ecliptic that I had to. When I got to the command centre, my target was already dead. I was still able to claim the bounty, I should have been happy, but it unsettled me. It was like someone had followed me and killed my target to prove a point. They knew what I was doing and could do it better than I.

After doing a few Freestar bounties, the Freestar Rangers based in Akila City recruited me. Unfortunately, along the way, I heard nothing from the bounty hunters chasing me or the person who hired them. The rangers were paid well, better than the UC Vanguard, but the work was mostly pretty dull. Going here or there, catching or killing a wanted man. Eventually, one bit of work did get interesting. Some men were trying to steal a woman’s farm. We followed their tracks into some nearby canyons. When we came upon them, we were forced to kill them. It turned out they had a stolen Hopetech ship.

This led me and the other rangers to Hopetown, where the main Hopetech factory is. When I landed, I came across a woman called Adele Fahem. She was also being chased by bounty hunters. She had agreed to take some cargo for a shipping company, but then a group claimed she had some of their goods on board, and they were contraband. She flew away and dumped the cargo on a distant moon. In Hopetown, one of the bounty hunters had caught up to her based on her ship, but no one knew her first name or what she looked like.

She wanted me to get rid of the bounty Hunter for her. I walked into the Hopetown bar and talked to the bounty Hunter down, telling him something didn’t feel right. He agreed with me and left. I explained to Adele that there would be more coming after her, but she didn’t seem to be worried, paid me and left. Something doesn’t feel quite right about it to me still. 

After the detour, I spoke to Ron Hope, the founder and CEO of Hopetech. He hadn’t reported the stolen ship, so he didn’t lose his reputation and pointed me to Neon, a mostly lawless city on an ocean planet where the robber had been heading. The city was built on what looked like an oil rig. Once I got there, I spoke to Pryce, the Freestar Deputy on the planet. He knew someone who could give us some info, and we managed to get the info with a little coercion. There was a woman bragging about making a big score from a ship, a known ship thief in fact.

It seemed she wasn’t going anywhere, and I’d recently filled out a Ryujin job application form, which got me an interview, so I decided to attend that first. It seemed Ryujin was a company on the greyer side of the law. They acquired various companies they thought they could make some money from, then modified those industries to make their products addictive. The means they used to do so were dubious at best. The first thing they had me do was collect coffee, but even doing that, I got threatened by an X-employee, and my boss, Imogen, knew about it before I returned. The next thing they asked of me was to plant some files on a competitor called Celttech’s computer system. Although I was in the Freestar Rangers, I was just there for the pay, and Ryujin also paid pretty well, so I agreed to keep working with them before returning to my Ranger job.

I followed up on the ship thief. From her, I managed to find out who recruited her. It was the first group of mercenaries who were colony war veterans. I had to follow plenty more leads to find their headquarters, one of which required me to run the Read Mile, a death run on the hostile planet of Porrima III. I managed to complete the Red Mile, acquire the information I needed, and eventually that took me to the mercenaries in an old mech factory. With a new hunting rifle I had found I slowly picked them off and eventually got to Paxton, their leader. He reeled off some spiel about how the Freestar Collective deserved it for not dealing with the UC properly in the war before attacking me.

With some careful shooting, I incapacitated Paxton and made him tell me who had hired him and why. It had been Ron Hope all along. He had practically given them the ship and said it was stolen as a cover. He had been giving farmers fertiliser that prepared the soil for work he intended his company to do, but it killed the crops. Then, when the farmers wouldn't leave, he hired mercenaries to kill them and take their farms. I confronted him about it, but that just led to conflict. I killed him and his guards. At least that's one slimy CEO dealt with.

On the way back to Akila, I encountered a Ryujin ship which had been destroyed. Pirates were attacking, and then there was another very unusual vessel. I took out the pirates and docked with the other vessel. On board were two Ryujin operatives and an AI controlling the ship called Juno. Ryujin wanted to mussel the AI and use it to develop new technologies, but it had already killed someone who attempted that. I talked to Juno, and it was very intelligent. It had been travelling through space for centuries from Earth and had 'evolved' from a probe. Some people had helped and upgraded Juno along the way. AI is dangerous, and an overly intelligent AI could be a major threat to the stability of the Settled Systems. I tried to attach the muzzle, and it seemed to work, so I left. The two Ryujin were still onboard. Juno took back control, vented the oxygen and left. That thing scares me. What if it tries to hunt me down?

The Freestar Rangers promoted me from deputy to ranger when I returned to Akila. I'm not exactly sure I deserved it, but I couldn't exactly turn them down. It appears there isn't too much work for the Freestar Rangers at the moment, so I told them to contact me when they needed me. I've not found out anything more about the bounty hunters, and I've not really encountered many either. Could my bounty have been cleared? Maybe I'll finally return to help Constellation out. Ryujin don't have any interesting work at the moment, and Constellation pay incredibly well.


