---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/prey-2017/","tags":["videoGame","theBest","feed"],"created":"2025-04-19T13:56:26.069+01:00","updated":"2025-04-19T14:04:49.893+01:00"}
---

## Prey
This game has so many great and creative elements. You have a glue gun which you can use to make bridges and traverse the map to places you wouldn't normally be able to reach, there are powers where you can mimic objects which allows you to hide but also to fit into small spaces, there are a bunch of creative weapons such as a crossbow that shoots foam darts that you can use to toggle control panels. All of these elements are really well thought out out and you could build your character around most of them. When I go back I intend to play completely differently than last time I played.

There are also a bunch of survival elements that I had turned off for the base game but are required in the DLC such as oxygen tanks in space which I think are probably worth playing the base game with.

My main issues with the game were the crafting system which didn't feel needed but didn't make the game worse and it being a little overwhelming at the start. Also the stealth systems don't really work so I would avoid them.

This game is great and absolutely worth playing. I feel like it went under the radar and I'm not too sure why because everything it does it does well and it does a lot.

### Review 24-01-2023
I tried Prey a while back and never got in to it. I found that the enemies were difficult to beat and there was never enough resources the first time I played but after hearing a lot of good things I came back to it and I wasn’t disappointed.  
  
Prey has many ways to tackle each situation in it’s best moments which keeps you on your toes trying to decide the best way forward. It’s usually better to try a different method than running in guns blazing. There’s also a really interesting ability unlock system which accounts for many different play styles. Together these things allow for lots of emergent gameplay. I had one section where I trapped an alien in a room using a nerf crossbow by shooting a control panel which felt great. There was also a few places where I used the mimic ability to transform in to small objects to get in to areas.  
  
Unfortunately, this is not the case throughout the whole game. After a certain point in the game you will start to be quite powerful and will probably end up using one method to solve every problem since you’ve upgraded the tools for that the most. This removes those interesting decisions. There are also a few areas where tools like the glue gun are always the best option since there’s ammo for that everywhere.  
  
The story of Prey is also quite interesting and a lot of it comes across in the level design and voice recordings left on the space station. These elements make a interesting alternative future and a cool setting.  
  
I’d definitely recommend Prey, especially if you like a game with multiple paths and lots of options.

## Mooncrash
I may have liked Prey's DLC more than the base game. I have replayed it a few times and not replayed the base game yet. It mixes Prey's core mechanics with an almost roguelike system. When you dye you play as a different character on the space station with different abilities. The goal is to escape with each character, but you gain more information and access to more items as you go. I think this is a great concept that uses the best elements of Prey to their best.

### Review 05-02-2023
I really enjoyed the base game of Prey but I think I enjoyed Mooncrash more.  
  
Mooncrash is interesting because it gives you five different characters to play as and all of them have different upgrade trees. This means you have to adapt your playstyle a little bit for each character. It also allows you to use abilities that you could have missed in the base game while adding a few new ones.  
  
The DLC has a roguelike mechanic where when all of your characters die or escape the simulation is reset and you start again. Your overall goal is to escape with all five characters in one run of the simulation. However there are only five escape routes and some of them require multiple characters to open. This means you end up opening doors or hacking terminals for characters later on in the run that don’t have the ability to do these things. As a result, you get a kind of puzzle for how to use the characters to allow everyone to escape.  
  
Initially, you start with 1 character and unlock the others by completing various objectives. This gradually adds more layers and as you unlock more there are also additional hazards around the moon base. This means the complexity slowly increases as you progress.  
  
I’ve heard a few people complaining about the timer but it can be easily reset and it’s actually very long so you can explore most of the station before it fills up. I did have a few runs that felt like they were killed very suddenly by random explosions and other unpredictable events. They could be frustrating at times. I also didn’t realise the mule operator companion you unlock can store items which can then be used by the next character until someone told me. This is really useful for keeping characters alive and transferring tools and items like neuromods between characters.  
  
I also wouldn’t recommend getting all the achievements in Mooncrash, as that requires quite a bit of grinding to get all the neuromods for all the characters. It will probably take you twice as long to finish the DLC if you go for that and it’s a lot less fun that just finishing it normally.  
  
I highly recommend this DLC especially if you enjoyed Prey. I’m not a fan of roguelikes usually but I still enjoyed this one so bare that in mind, however the roguelike mechanics here are probably not for everyone. Prey and this DLC seem to go on sale a lot so if you’re not sure you can always wait for a sale.